### Thoughts on
# Grading for Equity
### by Steve Sabaugh

The podcast had some great ideas. I think they make sense in general, not necessarily for equity, or at least equity as it is used in modern parlance, but as a good way to grade in general. Are we not taught to grade on mastery? Is it not mastery of the subject that is our primary objective as instructors.

I like his chief criticism of the point system is that it is fungible and you could be bad in one content area and make up for it in another. However, describing mastery in a rubric is easier said than done. Grading on a straight rubric can also be too subjective and unfair at times. Although I cannot argue with his racist critiques of grading, I can argue that just because something is a hundred years old it is necessarily bad. I mean Howard University and other HBC have used the same grading systems. He did mention that this method is backed by research and that the old system is proven to be ineffective and is culturally insensitive, so I am in favor of adopting it, providing that these descriptors can be modeled effectively.

I was struck by his analogy of the girl who is well organized, with good performance but is weak in content skills, and the boy who is shy and disorganized but strong in content skills both getting the same B grade. That does seem unfair. The only aspect lacking from his “no behavior” grading concept was that of effort. That is something that needs to be considered at least. And in the case of his analogy, the girl showed she was putting in the effort. Would it be then fair to both award them with an A? He did a great job answering the ‘If I don’t grade behavior will my students care?’ question. The research shows that the preparation pays off for itself. The professor who makes her undergrads write a “reflection” essay sounds like a terrible idea. I do not think I would make my high school students do that. It has been my experience as a student, that turning in assignments late has been its own punishment. As a teacher, my job is to grade. It may be a pain to grade late but so can any “work” be a pain sometimes. I would rather have the assignment done late and correct than not done at all. I also like giving me a heads-up idea if it is coming late.

I’m all for trying this out. I’m just not sure what it is like in the real teaching world yet. What would my supervisors say? Do they require receipts (i.e. graded homework assignments)? Testing this out unit bu unit or semester by semester does not seem to be like a big task either.
