# The Bad

When I was a cs undergrad I was a tutor. Intro to programming and programming logic and design were  prereqs for many classes in web design, design and general computer tech classes. I realized pretty quick, that many of the people that signed up for tutoring had 2 things in common. They usually had the same terrible instructor that didn't really teach them anything, but just guided them in in-class exercises out of the book and they had no real intrest in learning how to program and I was just there to do the work for them. I did my best to teach the concepts of visual basic, the visual studio IDE and the .net framework to them, while also completing there work. I would also get random texts of very specific questions all around the same time, when they would ask me for help to answer questions for them on their exams. I was not going to risk getting kicked out of school for being a nice guy, so I had to say no. This really bummed me out. A few times, I really thought I got through to some of my students at least a little. I was so excited and tried so hard. I would make them laugh and it seemed like the picked up some stuff, but when the exam texts questions would be "What does a dim statement do?," which is how you declare a variable, the most basic thing, I realized I had done nothing.

I think the biggest issue is that I didn't have enough time. For those who had no interest in being programmers, "you can lead a horse to water..." asr the saying goes, but for those who did want to program, but had a lot of difficulty, they just needed a different approach. I was lucky that I had multiple approaches from very good instructors when I first learned, and perseverance to learn. That is hard to do when you are frustrated. I think that if I had a chance to find something I knew my students were really good at and reminded of them of that each time they had trouble with a concept or were going to take an exam, they would have done better.

# The Good

I never really had a success story in tutoring. I'm hoping this counts. When a really hard concept stumped me, like modularization, arrays or creating user defined classes, I pretended to try to teach the concept to someone who knew nothing about programming. Sometimes, I would do this to my wife, other times just in my head on the subway or wherever. After a while, The concept would unlock for me. This would also require proper scaffolding from my instructors, poring over my notes, code, and texts, etc., but the the new knowledge would eventually click. I think it worked because you take nothing for granted. You go back to basics, a clean slate, and build the pieces of puzzle back, this time seeing how each piece fits until the new "hard" piece fits in perfectly and the picture is clearer. The last time I did this with classes and OOP I decided I wanted to be a teacher instead of a developer. The high I got from that experience is why I'm here at Hunter. I an only imagine how much more gratifying that experience is when you can get someone else's mind to grasp a concept.
